URL: https://www.redhat.com/en/summit
Title: Red Hat Summit 2024 Homepage
Text Content:                         May 6-9, 2024Denver, CO                    Unlock your experience by locking in your attendance. Act quickly and secure your spot before the event.Hear from experts why Red Hat is the enterprise platform for applying new AI capabilities in the cloud to trusted on-prem data.                    Take our 3-question quiz to find out which Red Hat                    Summit sessions are the right fit for you.                Please select 1 answer.Application platformsAutomationDeveloper productivityEdge, AI, and emerging technologiesInfrastructureServices and continuous educationPlease select 1 answer.I prefer to listen to others share contentI like to participate in group activities and discussionsI need to see demonstrations, graphs, and videosI like to get hands-on with tools and productsPlease select 1 answer.Non-technical, business-focusedTechnical, introductoryTechnical, intermediateTechnical, advancedRegister now to add recommendations to your agenda or you can save your results at the end of the quiz. If you prefer to see all options, skip to the session catalog.Check out your session recommendations and be sure to register for Red Hat Summit so you can build your agenda and save your seat.Note: Your session recommendations will not automatically save to your agenda.Copy your custom URL to save your results and build your agenda after you register.Copied!Red Hat® Summit and AnsibleFest bring together IT professionals, customers, partners, and peers to provide you the tools, connections, and knowledge to support your technology goals. Register now and join us May 6-9 in Denver, Colorado, to solve difficult challenges, grow your expertise, and learn ways to meet the demands of your customers with less, not more, complexity. You’ll leave with new ideas to help you and your company excel.                        May 6-9, 2024Denver, CO                    Matt Hicks was named President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat in July 2022. In his previous role, he was Executive Vice President of Products and Technologies where he was responsible for all product engineering, including products such as Red Hat OpenShift®, Red Hat Enterprise Linux®, the JBoss® middleware portfolio, OpenStack® and Ansible®.He has been with Red Hat for 16 years, watching it grow from a single-product company to the multi-billion-dollar enterprise it is today. He was also one of the founding members of the OpenShift team and has been at the forefront of cloud computing ever since.With more than 25 years of Linux experience and a background in computer engineering, Hicks has always had a passion for combining infrastructure and application technologies. His engineering background includes several years at IBM, as well as startup experience, where he served in various roles spanning engineering, IT, and consulting. This breadth of experience has allowed Hicks to use technology to solve customer and business problems across all areas of IT. With technology innovation converging on open source, Linux, and containers, his experience has placed him at the center of what he believes to be the most exciting time in industry history.Chris Wright is Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of Global Engineering at Red Hat. He leads a team that guides Red Hat’s technology vision, co-creates technologies, and collaboratively implements change to ensure the success of Red Hat’s ecosystem of associates, customers, communities, and partners. Wright’s organization includes: Office of the CTO, Ecosystem Engineering, Product Security, Global Engineering Associate Experience, Product Engineering, Experience Engineering, and CTO Customer-Led Open Innovation.During his 25+ years as a software engineer, Wright has worked in the telecommunications industry and beyond on high-availability and distributed systems. He also has experience in the Linux industry on security, virtualization, and networking. Wright has been a Linux developer for more than 15 years, with most of this time spent working deep in the Linux kernel. He is passionate about open source software serving as the foundation for next-generation IT systems.Stefanie Chiras is Senior Vice President of Partner Ecosystem Success at Red Hat. She leads Red Hat’s global partner ecosystem engagement to foster relevance for our customers and growth for our partners.She focuses on setting the global partner strategy and establishing clear paths for partner success across the entire ecosystem. Chiras plays a critical role in articulating  the value of Red Hat’s product portfolio and defining the strategy for partnering with Red Hat for customer success.Chiras has held several senior product leadership positions at Red Hat, most recently as Senior Vice President of the Platforms Business Group, where she was responsible for defining, building, and executing the company’s cross-platform strategy and the products that support it. Prior to that, Chiras was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Red Hat Enterprise Linux organization at Red Hat, where she was responsible for the entire product line.Before Red Hat, Chiras served as Vice President of Offering Management at IBM Cognitive Systems. As part of the Cognitive Systems brand team, she led worldwide business for the systems and system software portfolios, AIX, IBM i, Linux, and the cloud stack. She also led the portfolio’s transformation to support enterprise workloads and artificial intelligence, machine learning, and deep learning.Chiras has extensive experience in both business and technology. Her technical roles range from silicon technology to system architecture, as well as both IBM Power Systems and IBMz processor design. She also has served as a member of IBM’s Research Division and IBM Systems and Technology Group.Ashesh Badani is the Senior Vice President and Chief Product Officer at Red Hat. In this role, he is responsible for the company’s overall product portfolio and business unit groups, including product strategy, business planning, product management, marketing, and operations across on-premise, public cloud, and edge.His product responsibilities include Red Hat Enterprise Linux®, Red Hat OpenShift®, Red Hat Ansible Automation®, developer tools, and middleware, as well as emerging cloud services and experiences.Previously, Badani was Senior Vice President of Cloud Platforms, where he helped solidify the company as a hybrid cloud and enterprise Kubernetes leader. Under his leadership, Red Hat has also expanded OpenShift® from an award-winning Platform-as-a-Service solution to the industry’s leading enterprise Kubernetes platform, with 1,000+ customers spanning all regions and industries. Badani started at Red Hat overseeing product line management and marketing for the Red Hat JBoss® Enterprise Application Platform middleware portfolio.Badani has played a significant role around strategy, analysis, and integration for key Red Hat acquisitions—including StackRox in 2021, CoreOS in 2018, and FuseSource in 2012—to bolster the company’s integration portfolio.Prior to joining Red Hat, Badani served as Director of Product Management and Product Marketing of Integration and Application Platform Products at Sun Microsystems. He has more than 20 years of experience in the technology and finance industries at both established and emerging companies.Leigh Day is Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Red Hat. Throughout her more than 20 years at Red Hat, she has held a variety of positions. Her earliest role was creating an online advertising revenue stream to help supplement business for Red Hat® Linux® (Red Hat’s original boxed product).She advanced into product management and product marketing for Red Hat Linux and then moved into a pivotal leadership role—building an in-house Marketing Communications and Brand function responsible for simplifying, unifying and amplifying Red Hat’s unique messaging-voice to deliver noteworthy experiences for Red Hat customers and partners.Day started at Red Hat in 1999 as employee number 139, collaborating to make Red Hat a world-class software company built around open source technology. She was an integral part of the Marketing team that launched Red Hat into "the enterprise" with Red Hat Enterprise Linux in 2001, and has led the team responsible for Red Hat’s annual user conference, Red Hat Summit, since its inception in 2005. This gathering of Red Hat customers, partners, developers, and associates has become the industry's premier open source technology conference. Under Day’s leadership, Red Hat has launched many successful marketing programs like Command Line Heroes, redhat.com, Open Source Stories, Co.Lab, and more. Day also led the Marketing team for more than 20 acquisitions at Red Hat, helping to expand awareness of our portfolio as it grew and evolved.Craig Mitchell is the Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) Manager at Navy Federal Credit Union, where his current leadership role reflects his aptitude for leveraging technology to streamline processes, ensuring system reliability and optimal performance.Today, as an SRE Manager, Craig marries his varied experiences to offer a unique perspective, always striving to bridge the gap between technology and its real-world applications. As a champion of progress and efficiency, he remains committed to ushering in a future where automation serves as the backbone of seamless operations.Craig is a 16-year veteran of the British Army and a chartered management accountant.Baljinder Kang is the Head of Platform Engineering at NatWest Group, transforming the bank's approach to engineering. He has successfully introduced new development approaches, new tooling, and new applications to the bank.Dr. Ellen Grant is the Käthe Beutler, MD Harvard Professor of Pediatrics and Professor of Radiology, Harvard Medical School. She is a neuroradiologist and directs research for the Maternal Fetal Care Center, Faculty Affairs for Radiology and is the Founding Director of the Developmental Science Center (DSC), Boston Children’s Hospital. The DSC focuses on technology development and has more than 70 members with 17 faculty and 7 postdoctoral students.In the past decade, her center has raised $80M to support their research. Dr. Grant is a Fellow of the American College of Radiology and Senior Fellow of the International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM). She received the Outstanding Contributions in Research Award from the American Society of Neuroradiology in 2021 and the Gold Medal Award from the American Society of Pediatric Neuroradiology in 2022. She has published over 300 articles and is currently principal investigator (PI) on 8 major National Institutes of Health (NIH) awards.This year, AnsibleFest takes place at Red Hat Summit, featuring a keynote, breakouts, lightning talks, and Ansible announcements. Attendees will learn about tools to address automation challenges and unlock what’s next in infrastructure, app development, edge computing, cloud services, and other enterprise IT essentials—all at no additional cost.A number of Red Hat Summit sessions will explore how we provide the artificial intelligence (AI) platforms that connect your clouds, your data, and your workloads. You can learn more about making the most of existing IT investments by bringing AI into the enterprise through the hybrid cloud while meeting compliance, security, and operational requirements.Take advantage of discounted event rates for you or your team.                    Earliest                                                                            (January 10-February 13)                    Early                                                                            (February 14-March 19)                    Regular                                                                            (March 20-May 9)                    3+ passes                                                                            Public group prices available all yearCommunicate the benefits of attending Red Hat Summit and AnsibleFest 2024 for yourself or as a team. Use this letter to help lay out how attending Red Hat Summit and AnsibleFest can benefit your organization. Find the sessions that are right for you with our agenda and session catalog. In addition to keynotes, roundtable discussions, and the expo hall, you will gain access to hands-on training, labs, and networking. Check out the full agenda, then register to create your own personalized schedule using the catalog to maximize your time at Red Hat Summit 2024.Find the answers you need to prepare for Red Hat Summit and AnsibleFest. Sign up to receive the latest information on registration, event details, and pricing.Follow @RedHatSummit and @RedHat on social media.Use #RHSummit and #AnsibleFest to join the conversation.Red Hat Summit is the premier enterprise open source event for IT professionals to learn, collaborate, and innovate on technologies from the datacenter and public cloud to the edge and beyond.
Data: 13149 Bytes 
total data: 97685 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['networking', 'network', 'network', 'security', 'architecture', 'information', 'data', 'operational', 'intelligence', 'Linux', 'kernel', 'open source', 'network', 'networking', 'system']