URL: https://securityintelligence.com/news/
Title: News Archive
Text Content:                               After years of work and unsuccessful attempts at legislation, a draft of a federal data privacy law was recently released. The United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce released the American Privacy Rights Act on April 7, 2024. Several…                                                      The “need for speed” is having a negative impact on many Mac users right now. The Apple M-series chips, which are designed to deliver more consistent and faster performance than the Intel processors used in the past, have a vulnerability…                                                      The federal government recently took a new step toward prioritizing cybersecurity and demonstrating its commitment to reducing risk. On March 20, 2024, the Pentagon formally established the new Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber Policy to supervise…                                                      Due to ongoing cyberattacks and threats, critical infrastructure organizations have been on high alert. Now, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) has introduced a draft of landmark regulation outlining how organizations will be required to report cyber incidents to…                                                      The White House recently released its budget for the 2025 fiscal year, which supports the government’s commitment to cybersecurity. The cybersecurity funding allocations line up with the FY 2025 cybersecurity spending priorities released last year that included the following pillars:…                                                      Last month’s cyberattack on Change Healthcare, a sizable unit of UnitedHealth Group, brought new repercussions rarely seen in a cyberattack. As a result of the threat actor’s actions, healthcare systems and providers suffered cash flow issues, which resulted in providers…                                                      The Office of the National Cyber Director (ONCD) recently released a new report, “Back to the Building Blocks: A Path Toward Secure and Measurable Software.” The report is one of the first major announcements from new ONCD director Harry Coker…                                                      The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) — responsible for cybersecurity and infrastructure protection across all levels of the United States government — has been hacked. “About a month ago, CISA identified activity indicating the exploitation of vulnerabilities in Ivanti…                                                      The Department of Justice (DOJ) is ramping up efforts focused on disrupting cyber criminal organizations operating within and outside of United States borders. The dismantling of Volt Typhoon, a prolific hacker collective, marked a turning point in the DOJ’s offensive…                                                      It seems like only months ago deepfakes were still just a curiosity. Now, deepfakes are a real and present danger. And in an election year, the influence of AI-manipulated content could be disastrous. During a recent Washington Post Live event,…                        Analysis and insights from hundreds of the brightest minds in the cybersecurity industry to help you prove compliance, grow business and stop threats.
Data: 3383 Bytes 
total data: 71094 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['cybersecurity', 'vulnerability', 'Cybersecurity', 'cybersecurity', 'data', 'exploit', 'CIS', 'Defense', 'vulnerability', 'exploit', 'system', 'vulnerability']