URL: https://ubuntu.com/
Title: Enterprise Open Source and Linux       
Text Content:                                                 Your submission was sent successfully!                                                                                                                                            You have successfully unsubscribed!                                                                                                                                            Thank you for signing up for our newsletter!                                                                                                In these regular emails you will find the latest updates about                                                Ubuntu and upcoming events where you can meet our team.                                                        Introducing the Ubuntu Desktop for Raspberry Pi, the latest desktop features and micro clouds.                        Get Ubuntu 23.10                          Learn more about Ubuntu on the Raspberry Pi ›                                      Security, support, and managed services from the publisher of Ubuntu.            Get Ubuntu Pro                  Spotlight      Better security. More packages. Newer tools. All your open source, from cloud to edge.66% of experienced developers prefer Ubuntu.That's why Ubuntu supports the fastest, biggest and most successful digital operations.                              The 2020 HackerEarth Developer Survey                                    Ubuntu Pro is more than Linux. Security and compliance for the full stack.                  Secure your open source apps. Patch the full stack, from kernel to library and applications, for CVE compliance. Governments and auditors certify Ubuntu for FedRAMP, FISMA and HITECH.                    Secure all your open source with us ›          Sustainable open source at the lowest cost, everywhere.Rethink what's possible with Linux and open source.            Companies engage Canonical to drive down open source operating costs. Automate everything: multi-cloud operations, bare metal provisioning, edge clusters and IoT.          Most public cloud instances are Ubuntu, for performance and security.            Operate private cloud the smart way – supported or fully managed.                    AKS. EKS. GKE. Kubeadm. MicroK8s. Charmed Kubernetes. All on Ubuntu.                  Ubuntu Core Appliances with transactional updates for a better embedded Linux.                  Optimised AI/ML and cloud devops. The professional developer's preference.                  Turn a rack into a bare metal cloud. Metal-as-a-Service provisions  Windows, ESXi and Linux.                  From turtles to trucks, Ubuntu drives the robot revolution.                  Universal model-driven operators for classic and Kubernetes estate.                    Learn more about universal operators                        
Data: 2869 Bytes 
total data: 78872 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['security', 'Linux', 'Ubuntu', 'kernel', 'open source']