URL: https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/ubuntu-linux-and-bash-windows-program
Title: Ubuntu Linux and Bash as a Windows Program!
Text Content: Microsoft has ruled the operating system world for many years, and it'sstaggering to see how many computers run Microsoft Windows in all its manyvariants. In May 2017, Microsoft announced it had an installed base of 1.4billion. Sure, there also are much more than a billion devices now running Android,but if you're running a desktop or laptop computer, odds remain thatit's running some version of Microsoft Windows.Microsoft hasn't just ignored the rest of the OS world—although it suretook a long time for them to bail on Windows Mobile and accept Android—soit was with delight that I read that the next version of Windows 10 wouldinclude a simple app that lets you run a Linux shell.No hassles with complex installations, no dual booting, no virtual machines youneed to configure—just a simple app to find in the Microsoft Store and a programto click and run whenever you want to expand your knowledge of Bash orLinux.Sort of.At the time of this writing, the app requires that you're in the early releaseprogram (it's free to join, and you'll become a beta tester for the next version ofWindows 10), but once you're signed up and running the early release version,it is indeed a download-and-go program.By the time you read this article, however, what I'm running as an earlyrelease of Win10 should be the latest public update, so that roadblock willvanish.To get started, you'll need to enable the Windows Subsystem for Linux (whichalso lets you run other flavors of Linux and is pretty cool), but start bysearching in the Microsoft Store for "Ubuntu" to find Ubuntu Linux onWindows. The latest version of Ubuntu is supported in the app too: 16.04 LTS.Click to launch it once installed, and you'll be confronted with a windowlike the one shown in Figure 1.It's interesting to note that some standard Linux commands returnnothing—like —but most of them workfine, and there even are dot files in mynewly created home directory /home/taylor.This is a Bash login shell. You can confirm your own shell a coupledifferent ways, butI like this command: .Are you curious about how the system identifies itself?  is the standard Linuxcommand to get the version, which reveals this interesting info:VirtuaPC is indeed a virtual machine system (you can learn more about it at theMicrosoft.com download center, if you're curious), and it's all part ofthe install, all hidden from us users. Thank goodness; VM installs can be trickyto configure properly.What about Bash itself? It's easy to identify versions by using the flag:Version 4.3.11 is reasonably current, although at the time of this writing the GNU archive shows the latestversion is 4.4 (you can go here to see the latest).Better yet, you're not quite in the late 1980s with the command lineeither, as the default TERM identifies itself to programs not as ANSI but as. This means you can have colorsincluded in output,  results and so on. Whether it looks nice and is legible is anotherstory.Let's give it a whirl—see Figure 2.Changing the font size, window color scheme and so on is tricky because there'sno UI to the Ubuntu program in Windows. It's also hard to get into the XWindow System underlying the Ubuntu server that's running on your Windowssystem, so the standard trick of changing settings in .Xdefaults won't work.Fortunately, you at least can improve the color scheme somewhat with thecommand, then axe the default aliases to remove the clumsy ANSI colors. Thiscommand produces a far more readable terminal screen:Ubuntu or Microsoft, someone has set it so that "white" is actually avery light grey, so the results are quite attractive. The problem is, run a commandthat knows how to output in color, and things get pretty broken pretty fast, asyou can see in Figure 3 when I tried an .Open up the ~/.bashrc file, however, and you'll find that commands likehave aliases that force the use of color. You also can check this with thecommand:The solution is to go into the ~/.bashrc and comment out (preface each line with asymbol) all of these aliases, and you'll be very close to Windows/Ubuntuconfiguration nirvana.The only piece left that I kept hitting was the default ability of the vi editor(yeah, not emacs) to use color. Open up a file like my .profile, andit's out-of-control color soup and completely unreadable, as you can see inFigure 4.Again, it's fixable. This time, you want to create a new file in your home directorycalled .vimrc that contains this single line:Confusingly,  is the parsing and display of different fileelements in different colors. Can't read the screen to create this file? Invi type this:and it'll turn off all that crazy color stuff.Those few tweaks will get you much farther toward being able to use and easilyread the Ubuntu window in Windows until there's an actual settings orpreferences option that becomes available.Give it a try, and if you find out how to make the typeface bigger or any otheruseful configuration tweaks, let me know in the comments below, and I'll revisit thislater with the best user submissions.Dave Taylor has been hacking shell scripts on UNIX and Linux systems for areally long time. He's the author of  and . You can find him on Twitteras @DaveTaylor, and you can reach him through his tech Q&A site: Ask Dave Taylor. Linux Journal, representing 25+ years of publication, is the original magazine of the global Open Source community.
Data: 5380 Bytes 
total data: 910886 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['hacking', 'Linux', 'Ubuntu', 'operating system', 'terminal', 'shell', 'file', 'configuration', 'system', 'test']