URL: https://securityboulevard.com/2024/04/ssh-vs-ssl-tls-whats-the-difference/
Title: SSH vs. SSL/TLS: What’s The Difference?
Text Content: The Home of the Security Bloggers NetworkHomeSecurity Bloggers NetworkSSH and SSL/TLS are two widely used cryptographic protocols for establishing secure connections and ensuring secure communication between two parties over an unsecured network. While both protocols offer the same benefits—authentication, encryption, and data integrity—they are designed for different use cases and have distinct features. Here is a deep dive into how they work, what they are used for, and how they differ from each other.SSL stands for Secure Sockets Layer, and TLS stands for Transport Layer Security. SSL is the older version of the protocol and was deprecated in 2015. Most modern browsers don’t support it anymore. TLS is the current, updated version of the SSL. However, SSL continues to be used interchangeably with TLS out of habit.SSL/TLS is a PKI-based security protocol used to secure web traffic between a client and a server. It provides a mechanism to authenticate a server and establish a secure line of communication between clients and servers.SSL/TLS, commonly associated with HTTPS, is primarily designed to secure browser-server communications, where the browser refers to the client and the server refers to the web server hosting the website users want to visit. SSL/TLS enables the web browser to authenticate the web server. Authenticating the web server assures end users that the connection between them and the website is secure. SSL/TLS also helps encrypt the data in transit, ensuring that the data shared between users and the website remains confidential and unaltered.Today, all legitimate websites are expected to be secured with an SSL/TLS certificate. These digital certificates are signed by a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) to prove the legitimacy of the website to the user. Leading browsers discourage users from accessing websites without a valid SSL/TLS certificate through security warnings.While SSL/TLS is largely used to secure browser-server communication, it is also used to secure other forms of web communication, such as emails and VoIP calls.SSL/TLS works on the client-server model. For a client to establish a secure connection with a server, the two parties first perform a process called the “TLS handshake.” Let us consider a browser-server connection as an example to understand how the TLS handshake using the RSA algorithm works.SSH stands for Secure Shell. It is a cryptographic network protocol used for secure remote access to systems and servers over an untrusted network. SSH provides a mechanism for mutual authentication between a client (local machine) and a server (remote host) and establishes an encrypted channel of communication between them.SSH is designed to secure a wide variety of use cases. It enables information security specialists, developers, and system administrators to:Similar to SSL/TLS, SSH also works on the client-server model. But in the case of SSH, the “SSH client” is a piece of software on the user’s system that can communicate with the remote host, and the “SSH server” is the remote host that provides access via a secure SSH connection.The SSH handshake process is as follows:1. Server Verification: 2. Session Key Generation:After server verification, both parties mutually generate a session key using the Diffie-Hellman algorithm. The session key is a symmetric key that will be used to encrypt and decrypt the data exchanged during the session. 3. Client Authentication:Both SSL/TLS and SSH machine identities (certificates and keys) are utilized extensively by organizations to ensure secure communication and access control across their networks. As organizations shift to identity-first security strategies, managing these identities becomes paramount. The AppViewX platform helps organizations efficiently discover, manage, automate, and govern SSL/TLS and SSH identities at scale. Contact us to see a demo or learn more!*** This is a Security Bloggers Network syndicated blog from Blogs Archive - AppViewX authored by Krupa Patil. Read the original post at: https://www.appviewx.com/blogs/ssh-vs-ssl-tls-whats-the-difference/ Secure Coding PracticesStep  of 
Data: 4177 Bytes 
total data: 483401 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['encryption', 'information security', 'authentication', 'network', 'protocol', 'network', 'security', 'administrator', 'information', 'data', 'encryption', 'authentication', 'access control', 'authentication', 'encryption', 'network', 'system']