URL: https://www.schneier.com/tag/schneier-news/
Title: Schneier on Security:   Tagged Schneier news
Text Content: DuckDuckGoHomeBlogEntries By TagPage 1 of 43I have spoken at several TED conferences over the years.I’m putting this here because I want all three links in one place.Posted on May 3, 2024 at 2:13 PM•View CommentsThis is a current list of where and when I am scheduled to speak:The list is maintained on this page.Posted on April 14, 2024 at 12:02 PM•View CommentsThe paperback version of  has just been published. It’s the same book, only a cheaper format.But—and this is the real reason I am posting this—Amazon has significantly discounted the hardcover to $15 to get rid of its stock. This is much cheaper than I am selling it for, and cheaper even than the paperback. So if you’ve been waiting for a price drop, this is your chance.Posted on February 13, 2024 at 3:13 PM•View CommentsOkay, so this is weird. Zelle has been using my name, and my voice, in audio podcast ads—without my permission. At least, I think it is without my permission. It’s possible that I gave some sort of blanket permission when speaking at an event. It’s not likely, but it is possible.I wrote to Zelle about it. Or, at least, I wrote to a company called Early Warning that owns Zelle about it. They asked me where the ads appeared. This seems odd to me. Podcast distribution networks drop ads in podcasts depending on the listener—like personalized ads on webpages—so the actual podcast doesn’t matter. And shouldn’t they know their own ads? Annoyingly, it seems like it’s time to get attorneys involved.What would help is to have a copy of the actual ad. (Or ads, I’m assuming there’s only one.) So, has anyone else heard me in a Zelle ad? Does anyone happen to have an audio recording? Please email me.And I will update this post if I learn anything more. Or if there is some actual legal action. (And if this post ever disappears, you’ll know I was required to take it down for some reason.)Posted on January 19, 2024 at 3:05 PM•View CommentsThis is a current list of where and when I am scheduled to speak:The list is maintained on this page.Posted on January 14, 2024 at 12:01 PM•View CommentsLast month, I convened the Second Interdisciplinary Workshop on Reimagining Democracy (IWORD 2023) at the Harvard Kennedy School Ash Center. As with IWORD 2022, the goal was to bring together a diverse set of thinkers and practitioners to talk about how democracy might be reimagined for the twenty-first century.My thinking is very broad here. Modern democracy was invented in the mid-eighteenth century, using mid-eighteenth-century technology. Were democracy to be invented from scratch today, with today’s technologies, it would look very different. Representation would look different. Adjudication would look different. Resource allocation and reallocation would look different. Everything would look different, because we would have much more powerful technology to build on and no legacy systems to worry about.Such speculation is not realistic, of course, but it’s still valuable. Everyone seems to be talking about ways to reform our existing systems. That’s critically important, but it’s also myopic. It represents a hill-climbing strategy of continuous improvements. We also need to think about discontinuous changes that you can’t easily get to from here; otherwise, we’ll be forever stuck at local maxima.I wrote about the philosophy more in this essay about IWORD 2022. IWORD 2023 was equally fantastic, easily the most intellectually stimulating two days of my year. The event is like that; the format results in a firehose of interesting.Summaries of all the talks are in the first set of comments below. (You can read a similar summary of IWORD 2022 here.) Thank you to the Ash Center and the Belfer Center at Harvard Kennedy School, and the Knight Foundation, for the funding to make this possible.Next year, I hope to take the workshop out of Harvard and somewhere else. I would like it to live on for as long as it is valuable.Now, I really want to explain the format in detail, because it works so well.I used a workshop format I and others invented for another interdisciplinary workshop: Security and Human Behavior, or SHB. It’s a two-day event. Each day has four ninety-minute panels. Each panel has six speakers, each of whom presents for ten minutes. Then there are thirty minutes of questions and comments from the audience. Breaks and meals round out the day.The workshop is limited to forty-eight attendees, which means that everyone is on a panel. This is important: every attendee is a speaker. And attendees commit to being there for the whole workshop; no giving your talk and then leaving. This makes for a very collaborative environment. The short presentations means that no one can get too deep into details or jargon. This is important for an interdisciplinary event.  is interesting for ten minutes.The final piece of the workshop is the social events. We have a night-before opening reception, a conference dinner after the first day, and a final closing reception after the second day. Good food is essential.Honestly, it’s great but it’s also it’s exhausting. Everybody is interesting for ten minutes. There’s no down time to zone out or check email. And even though a shorter event would be easier to deal with, the numbers all fit together in a way that’s hard to change. A one-day event means only twenty-four attendees/speakers, and that’s not a critical mass. More people per panel doesn’t work. Not everyone speaking creates a speaker/audience hierarchy, which I want to avoid. And a three-day, slower-paced event is too long. I’ve thought about it long and hard; the format I’m using is optimal.Posted on January 8, 2024 at 7:03 AM•View CommentsBen Rothke chose  as “the best information security book of 2023.”Posted on December 22, 2023 at 3:08 PM•View CommentsThis is a current list of where and when I am scheduled to speak:The list is maintained on this page.Posted on November 14, 2023 at 12:01 PM•View CommentsJake Appelbaum’s PhD thesis contains several new revelations from the classified NSA documents provided to journalists by Edward Snowden. Nothing major, but a few more tidbits.Kind of amazing that that all happened ten years ago. At this point, those documents are more historical than anything else.And it’s unclear who has those archives anymore. According to Appelbaum,  destroyed their copy.I recently published an essay about my experiences ten years ago.Posted on September 21, 2023 at 7:03 AM•View CommentsThis is a current list of where and when I am scheduled to speak:The list is maintained on this page.Posted on April 14, 2023 at 4:04 PM•View CommentsSidebar photo of Bruce Schneier by Joe MacInnis.Powered by WordPress Hosted by PressableI am a public-interest technologist, working at the intersection of security, technology, and people. I've been writing about security issues on my blog since 2004, and in my monthly newsletter since 1998. I'm a fellow and lecturer at Harvard's Kennedy School, a board member of EFF, and the Chief of Security Architecture at Inrupt, Inc. This personal website expresses the opinions of none of those organizations.More EssaysMore TagsMore Books
Data: 7238 Bytes 
total data: 67711 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['information security', 'network', 'network', 'security', 'information', 'distribution', 'network', 'system']