URL: https://securityboulevard.com/2019/12/how-ai-can-help-you-stay-ccpa-compliant/
Title: How AI Can Help You Stay CCPA Compliant
Text Content: The Home of the Security Bloggers NetworkHomeCybersecurityAnalytics & IntelligenceThe California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) will soon affect the way companies conduct online business, store sensitive data, and handle privacy rights. While the provisions were crafted with California residents in mind, many industry experts predict that laws similar to the CCPA will soon be adopted in other states and eventually, at a federal level. Even now, companies are impacted if they have any cause to handle the personal data of California residents. The potential scope and impact of the CCPA are hard to estimate fully. What is certain is that the CCPA is here to stay — it’s essential to evaluate your policies and procedures around data privacy sooner rather than later. Bear in mind, too, that the CCPA was enacted through a ballot initiative. Voters made it clear that they want . Today’s consumer expects companies to handle their data in a reliable way. This expectation is not limited to California residents.The CCPA is aimed at protecting individual privacy rights. These rights primarily apply to consumer data. In truth, any private information your company is storing that belongs to a California resident could be subject to these new laws. Staying compliant will become vital as the law goes into effect in January. Companies who willfully avoid compliance can be fined under CCPA provisions.Essentially, the CCPA grants new and enhanced data privacy rights to California residents. To remain compliant, businesses must adjust their policies to address those rights.A few of these new guidelines include:1.   Requiring the  that is collected, sold, or disclosed. Further, consumers now have a right to know why and how that data is being used.2.    that protect consumers when they are exercising their CCPA rights. For instance, under CCPA, businesses generally can’t set a higher price for consumers who request more information about how their data is used.3.   Requiring companies to provide consumers with . 4.   If requested, businesses must . This extends to third parties. If you’ve shared a consumer’s data with a third party, that some of the consumer’s data. 5.   Allowing consumers to easily opt-out of having their data sold. Specifically, the CCPA will affect companies whose business activities fall within one of three parameters:1.   The business has an annual .2.   The business annually  of 50,000 or more consumers, households, or devices.3.   The business derives 50% or more of its annual .As you can see, the CCPA is primarily geared to regulate large companies who deal in the sale and distribution of consumer data. Remember, however, that the first provision above applies to any business with gross revenue above $25 million, regardless of its industry, if they handle the data of even a single California resident.First, take a few common-sense measures.  and take a look at your corporate data privacy, ideally in partnership with a data privacy attorney. Second, consider investing in emerging tech tools that can add a deeper layer of data privacy protection. , in particular, holds a great deal of promise when it comes to complying with the CCPA and improving the way companies handle data in general. Third, invest time and resources in  so that you have a good handle on where data is stored on your network and how you will retrieve it when requested. AI technology can map your data and update your systems as new data is added. The CCPA addresses data management activities specifically, a fact that many business owners will need to address.  Data management has become a time-consuming, stressful task for many businesses. The collection, processing, and securing of consumer, employee, and third-party data takes up a great deal of bandwidth on many fronts.AI-based data management solutions can take away much of the burden of these tasks. AI tools can add efficiencyto your data management processes and a layer of protection against fraud and other causes of data breaches. The CCPA will usher in an even longer list of required data management duties. Enhanced identification verification measures will be needed to stay compliant, and companies will be required to maintain a complete, detailed history of every private data transaction.  AI solutions can  to your data management system.The modern data privacy environment all but requires around-the-clock surveillanceof networked systems to ensure data is secure at all times. Manual, legacy processes cannot keep up with these demands, an issue that will only become more pronounced over time.The use of private data is an increasingly necessary component of most business transactions, online and in person. It’s a bit of a catch-22. Consumers are often . Keeping a watchful eye over that data at all times is a daunting concept, but continuous network monitoringis an especially well-suited job for modern AI. AI can quickly map large networks down to the smallest details. For example, AI could keep tabs on suspected unauthorized employee activities like large amounts of sensitive data being sent to a personal email account. AI is simply a smarter, better way to analyze network traffic.The CCPA stipulates that organizations must implement “reasonable” security measures, though the legislation does not list specifics. Upgrading your systems to an unsupervised AI system can help you stay on the safe side of compliance. MixMode has created smart AI network safety automation that can actually detect attacks the moment they happen. Preventing a data breach or fraudulent activity is far better than dealing with the aftermath. Modern problems require modern solutions. Set up a demo with the MixMode team to find out how we can help you enhance the way you handle and monitor data with Don’t Fall for the Hype – Marketing Myths in Artificial Intelligence for CybersecurityCase Study: MixMode AI Detects Attack not Found on Threat IntelMulti-Stream Cybersecurity and How it Can Save Your Business from a Zero-Day AttackUsing CloudTrail for Cyber Security with MixMode’s AIWhitepaper: Unsupervised AI – AI for Complex Network Security*** This is a Security Bloggers Network syndicated blog from MixMode authored by Christian Wiens. Read the original post at: https://mixmode.ai/blog/how-ai-can-help-you-stay-ccpa-compliant/ Secure Coding PracticesStep  of 
Data: 6430 Bytes 
total data: 568122 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['data breach', 'network', 'bandwidth', 'network', 'security', 'Cybersecurity', 'information', 'data', 'surveillance', 'monitoring', 'distribution', 'network', 'system', 'monitoring']