URL: https://securityboulevard.com/2018/02/internet-explorer-is-dead-long-live-internet-explorer/
Title: Internet Explorer is Dead, Long Live Internet Explorer?
Text Content: The Home of the Security Bloggers NetworkHomeSecurity Bloggers NetworkInternet Explorer (IE) was the most widely used enterprise browser for the better part of two decades. IE was king because it shipped with every Windows device, and also for website compatibility reasons. As enterprises began deploying internal web applications from the late 1990s through the late 2000s, many of these applications required Internet Explorer, Java, or Flash. These enterprise web applications simply didn’t work properly on any browser other than IE.Thankfully, most modern web applications deployed in the past five years are HTML5 compliant, do not have any Flash or Java dependencies, and run great on Chrome, Edge, or even Firefox.Historically, most web exploits over the last 15+ years used vulnerabilities native to IE or the ActiveX plugins in IE such as Java and Flash. Safeguarding organizations against these exploits is nearly impossible given the legacy architecture that IE and ActiveX was built upon.IE was written using legacy architecture that’s now decades old. Modern browsers such as Chrome and Edge were written from the ground up with security in mind. This does not mean that Chrome and Edge cannot be exploited. However, Chrome and Edge exploits are rare and harder to execute compared to IE, Java, and Flash.2018 is the year of Windows 10. By the end of 2018, Windows 10 will outnumber Windows 7 in the enterprise. This is a good thing, considering that Windows 10 is far more secure, and most users on Windows 10 now use Chrome or Edge (mostly Chrome).Now that the more secure Chrome is the browser king and most users are running Windows 10, does that mean we can finally close the coffin lid on Internet Explorer? Unfortunately, not yet.Remember all those legacy internal web applications that were built upon IE, Java, and Flash technologies? Well, they are still alive and well in most large enterprises. Nearly every large company I talk to still has pockets of old web applications that users need to access. So IE is still supported as a browser in most enterprises, even after migration to Window 10. Unfortunately, even on Windows 10, IE running Java or Flash is still a major security risk.How can you let users access legacy web applications with IE, Java, or Flash on Windows 10 while also protecting them? Bromium micro-virtualization! With Bromium Secure Platform running on Windows 10 (Windows 7 and 8.1 are also supported), you can run IE and legacy versions of Java, Flash, and other IE plugins to support your internal web applications.However, whenever a user visits an external website, Bromium will seamlessly isolate the IE tab, along with all the legacy plugins, inside a micro-VM. Should a website attempt to exploit a vulnerability within IE or its legacy plugins, the exploit will be fully isolated away from your Windows device. No one has ever been able to break out of a Bromium micro-VM, so you can continue to safely run IE with confidence and peace of mind.Read: Bromium protects downloads from any browser, including Chrome and EdgeContact BromiumThe post Internet Explorer is Dead, Long Live Internet Explorer? appeared first on Bromium.*** This is a Security Bloggers Network syndicated blog from Bromium authored by Dan Allen. Read the original post at: http://blogs.bromium.com/internet-explore-ie-forever/ Secure Coding PracticesStep  of 
Data: 3394 Bytes 
total data: 818333 Bytes 
Found keywords: ['vulnerability', 'security', 'architecture', 'exploit', 'vulnerability', 'exploit', 'vulnerability']